- [Instructor] We need to load the database
with the collection
of predefined tours and tour packages.
Our application uses an in memory H2 database.
Therefore we need to load the data each time
the application starts.
So now we have services to create the tours
and into our tour packages.
But how should we invoke them before the Tomcat starts up?
Remember explorecali application class?
in that class we have access to
the application starting point.
So I already have auto wired tour package service
and tour service in Explore Cali Application.
And there's also a method that says
"load tours that startup," and what that will do
is create the tour packages and create the tours.
And after each one of those I'm going to call
the service to say what are the total number of packages
and what are the total number of tours.
The main method does not have access to the services
because it's static and its class scope,
not object scope.
But what we can do is have Explore Cali application
implement the Spring Boot command line runner interface.
Now to fully implement that interface,
we have to implement the run method.
After the application has successfully launched,
but before it begins accepting web request,
Spring Boot invokes the Explorer Cali application dot
run method and passes in any command line arguments.
We don't have any of those arguments.
But we do want to set up the database
before permitting web requests.
Since the run method is at object scope,
we can access the injected services.
So what I'm actually going to do is take the body of the load
towards its startup and make it the body of the run method.
So let's look at the Create tour packages method.
This is just hard coding, the tour packages with the code
and then the name of the tour package.
Now let's see how we create the tours.
We need to create all the known tours.
The Explorer Cali travel agency provided us
with a dot JSON file that represents
all the possible tours.
And it's in the main explore Cali folder.
It's called explore California dot JSON.
So here are all the records in JSON format.
Some of the fields map directly to the fields
in the tour entity like title, description and blurb.
However, fields like price, tour package, difficulty,
region, those all require conversion
and in explore Cali Application,
i have a helper class called tours from file.
The tour from file attributes map directly to the JSON data.
And the read method is there to open the file,
import the JSON records as a tour from file object
and returns the objects as a list.
So by calling the read method,
it returns a list of tour from file objects,
which then are converted into tour entities.
So back in our run method,
I have a breakpoint at the beginning of the run
and the breakpoint at the beginning of the main method.
So I'm actually going to run this in debug in my IDE.
And I want to show you what happens
whenever we run this code as it is.
It starting up immediately it hits that main break point,
we'll keep going look at the Console,
as Spring Boot starts up with prints a lot of messages
cause there's a lot going on when Spring Boot ignites
starting the Tomcat service,
and Tomcat started on port 8080.
And here we are at our break point for create tours,
I'm going to step over that method.
And then verify that the number of packages was created.
There was 99 packages, that's great.
Now I'm going to step over the Create tours method.
And it's going to read in the
Explore California dot JSON file.
And I hit a breakpoint in my service.
Let's just keep going.
And we look at our console window and something happened.
There, let's look through the stack here.
We have a exception thrown into our service.
See if we can see what's going on here.
So in the tour service, we have the runtime exception
thrown, it says, "tour package does not exist."
And the name of the tour package is backpack Cali.
Let's take a look at the code here,
where we create and look up the tour package.
Take a moment to see if you can figure out
why this exception is being thrown.
Did you find it?
In create tour, we look up the tour package by the ID.
However, there's a bug here because
we're actually passing in the tour package name.
We need to be able to look up a tour package by its name.
This is possible with Spring Data JPA query methods